In this video it's gonna be up to you to wire up the list command the list command is the easiest of
all of the commands we've created and will create.
So let's go ahead and get to it.
Goal.
Wire up the command.
There's no options required for this.
Step one you're going to create an export a list of notes function from inside of notes dot J S which
will be called in the correct command handler over here in app dot J S now what is list notes gonna
do.
Well it's going to use console dot log to print all of the notes to the terminal.
First up you can print a header for the list.
Say something like your notes and you can use chalk to style it in whatever looks good to you.
Pick your favorite color and then below that you want to print out each note title and you can just
print it using a for each loop.
So for each note go ahead and log the title property.
Now once you have that in place as I already mentioned make sure to actually call it from the command
handler.
And finally test your work now with my current data.
I just have a single note so I would expect to see two lines print down below.
I would expect to see your notes styled using chalk as ever I desire.
Then below that I would expect to see all of the notes listed in this case.
I just have one so I would see just that one.
I'm going to go ahead and add a second one real quick.
So we have some more interesting data right here.
I'll go ahead and add course ideas as a note and I'll leave the body empty which is perfectly fine.
So now that we have this in place we have a second note showing up in the data giving us some more interesting
output when we actually write and test the list.
Command take as much time as you need to knock this one out.
Test your work and when you're done come back and click play.
All right let's get to it.
We're gonna kick things off in notes Don.
Jay asks creating that list notes function I can add this wherever I'd like.
I'm gonna put it right below remove note so a new concept list notes and from now on we'll be sticking
with Arrow functions when we can and in this case we can indeed use an arrow function.
Now we can't use the shorthand syntax but that's OK.
List notes isn't going to take in any arguments but we do need to export it.
So down below I'll be setting up list notes and the value for that property will come from the list
notes variable defined up above.
Making sure we can actually use it in other files.
Now let's go ahead and call list notes in app dot J S so we have our handler down below.
It is the third command we set up currently it just says listing out all the notes.
We're gonna remove that and we're gonna add a call to notes dot list notes.
Excellent.
Now that we have this in place we've technically done steps 1 and steps 2 but we haven't finished up
step 1.
So let's actually define the function over here.
We're gonna go through the process of first printing our title and for this one I'm going to use console
dialog to print the your notes message and I'll use chalk and I'm just going to inverse the colors if
I can ever spell it correctly and I will print your notes the exact styling you used wasn't important.
You could go with whatever you wanted.
And next up we have to print something for each note.
Now we don't have the notes we have to load them using the load notes function.
So we're going to add that first right here const notes equals a call to load notes.
So we're getting the return value back our array of notes and we're storing it in that notes variable
down below.
We can now use notes dot for each to do something for each note.
In this case what are we going to do.
Well we'll define that in our function down below.
This function gets called one time for each note with the individual note object.
And I mentioned I just wanted you to print the title so console.
Note dot title is going to get the job done.
Now that we have this in place we're actually done and we can move on to Step 3 and test our work.
I'm gonna make sure all my files are saved.
Down below.
That's gonna be node app dot J s list.
This should list out all of the notes right here.
What do I get.
I get your notes undefined and undefined so I am not seeing the individual note titles and I can see
right away.
That's because I've missed spelled title.
Now once again I'm gonna leave this typo in proving that not everyone's perfect and most errors are
related to small changes out of all of the questions I get any Q and A.
I'd say maybe 50 or 60 percent are just small one line typos.
So right here I will simply fix my code.
I'll rerun the command again.
And now we're getting the results we expected.
I have my styled title and I have my two items showing up down below matching up with the two notes
I have in my Jason File.
That is it for this quick video in creating the list command in the next one.
We are going to create the last command we need for this application.
That is the read command.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's go ahead and jump right in to the next one.